# Submitting a Single Compound

To submit a compound to the COCONUT platform, please follow the steps outlined below:

## Steps to Submit a Compound

1. **Login to your COCONUT account.**

2. **Navigate to the Molecules Section:**
   - In the left pane, select **"Molecules."**

3. **Initiate the Submission Process:**
   - On the Molecules page, click the **"New Molecule"** button at the top right.

4. **Complete the "Create Molecule" Form:**

   - **Name:** Enter the trivial name reported for the molecule in the original publication.
     > **Example:** Betamethasone-17-valerate

   - **Identifier:** This is auto-generated by the COCONUT platform. No need to fill this field.

   - **IUPAC Name:** Provide the systematic standardized IUPAC name (International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry name) generated according to IUPAC regulations.
     > **Example:** [9-fluoro-11-hydroxy-17-(2-hydroxyacetyl)-10,13,16-trimethyl-3-oxo-6,7,8,11,12,14,15,16-octahydrocyclopenta[a]phenanthren-17-yl] pentanoate

   - **Standard InChI:** Enter the standard InChI (International Chemical Identifier) generated using cheminformatics software.
     > **Example:** InChI=1S/C27H37FO6/c1-5-6-7-23(33)34-27(22(32)15-29)16(2)12-20-19-9-8-17-13-18(30)10-11-24(17,3)26(19,28)21(31)14-25(20,27)4/h10-11,13,16,19-21,29,31H,5-9,12,14-15H2,1-4H3

   - **Standard InChI Key:** Provide the standard InChI Key derived from the standard InChI.
     > **Example:** SNHRLVCMMWUAJD-UHFFFAOYSA-N

   - **Canonical SMILES:** Enter the canonical SMILES (Simplified Molecular Input Line Entry System) representation of the molecule.
     > **Example:** CCCCC(=O)OC1(C(=O)CO)C(C)CC2C3CCC4=CC(=O)C=CC4(C)C3(F)C(O)CC21C

   - **Murcko Framework:** This field will be auto-generated by the system and defines the core structure of the molecule.

   - **Synonyms:** Provide other names or identifiers by which the molecule is known.
     > **Example:** Betamethasone 17 Valerate, SCHEMBL221479, .beta.-Methasone 17-valerate, SNHRLVCMMWUAJD-UHFFFAOYSA-N, STL451052, AKOS037482517, LS-15203, 9-Fluoro-11, 21-dihydroxy-16-methyl-3, 20-dioxopregna-1, 4-dien-17-yl pentanoate

5. **Submit the Form:**
   - Click **"Create"** to submit your compound.
   - If you have another compound to submit, click **"Create & create another."**